---
# Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin
---

# Index

## Pronunciation

- <details><summary>/ˈɪnˌdɛks/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://lex-audio.useremarkable.com/mp3/index_us_1.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Transitive Verb

Record (names, subjects, etc.) in an index.

> the list indexes theses under regional headings

---

Link the value of (prices, wages, or other payments) automatically to the value of a price index.

> legislation indexing wages to prices

---

(of a machine or part of one) rotate or otherwise move from one predetermined position to another in order to carry out a sequence of operations.

> the pins are retracted and indexed to occupy an adjacent slotted position

### Noun

An alphabetical list of names, subjects, etc., with references to the places where they occur, typically found at the end of a book.

> clear cross references supplemented by a thorough index

---

An indicator, sign, or measure of something.

> exam results may serve as an index of the teacher's effectiveness

guide, clue, hint, indication, indicator, lead, sign, signal, mark, token, evidence, symptom, implication, intimation, suggestion

---

An exponent or other superscript or subscript number appended to a quantity.

> The thesis contains a proof of the fact that for any closed manifold the sum of the indices of a generic vector field is a topological invariant, namely the Euler characteristic.

---

A pointer on an instrument, showing a quantity, a position on a scale, etc.

pointer, indicator, needle, hand, finger, marker


